# 27C4F8D67865A03Cb9A1215D362362C9 Mitres 6 012S18 L07As

---

LECTURE 7: Conditioning on a random variable; Independence of r.v.'s
• Conditional PMFs
Conditional expectations
Total expectation theorem
• Independence of r.v.'s
Expectation properties
Variance properties
• The variance of the binomial
• The hat problem: mean and variance
1
Conditional PMFs
e(;r ="'-, '1'=7)
I I
PX IA(X A) = P (X = x A) PXIY ( x y) = P(X = x Y = y) -::
I I
fey:),)
-
PX,y ( x,y )
( ) >
I defined for y such that py(y) 0 I
PXIY x y - L PxlY(X y) = 1
py ( y )
x •
P
(2,.) .,. Sho
'(~'t
f
y
Pl('
11) :. 0
(I
0(
4
1120 2120 2120
p", .... ('-\ 'It;
3 2120 4120 1120 2120 t) "
v"
1120 3120 1120
I
=
PX,y(x, y) py(y) PXIY(x y)
•
I 1120 '/~
x
I 2 3 4
, 3
~
2
Conditional PMFs involving more than two r.v.'s
1 (
y- ()
• Self-expla nat ory notation ~,. ~) (;>,)',~)
>.
X -"Y " _
~ ;itJ _l'lI-<J:.;;tJ:..:<C_ __
ex""'"
=1
IY"'7,~~2-):o !(y~)')?= P'(',~
I
PX IY,Z (x y , z) 2-) - (7,.)
Y"'71
I "J(X"'2> 2-:6)
PX,Ylz (x, y z)
• Multiplication rule
peA n B n C ) = P(A)P(B I A)P(C I A n B)
/-l~~X="'~ 15=~'(=)'S c :f2-"~)
= I I
PX,Y,Z (X , y, z) Px(x) PYlx(y x) PZIX,Y(z x' ]I )
3
Conditional expectation
= =
I I I
E[X] = LXPx(x) E[X A] = L XPX IA(X) E [X Y Y] L XPx lY (x y)
x x x
• Expected va lu e rule
I
E[g(X)] = Lg(x) px(x) E[g(X) A] = L9(x) PX IA(X)
x
:T.
= =
I I
E [g(X) Y y] L g( x ) PX IY ( X y)
x •
4
Total probability and expectation theorems
• Al. ... , An : partiti o n of r1
=
PX(x) L Py(y)pxlY(x l y)
y
+ ... +
= I I
• E[X] p eA l ) E[X A I] P ( A n) E[X An]
= =
I •
E[X] L py(y) E[X Y y ]
y
• Fine print:
Also valid when Y Is a discrete LV. that ranges over an infinite set,
<
as long as EIiXIl
00
5
Independence
• of two eve nts: peA n B) = peA) . P CB) peA I B) = p eA)
• of a r .v. and an event: P(X = x and A - ) = P(X = x ) · peA), for all x
-
-
• of two r. v. 's:
P ( X = x and Y = y ) = P(X = x ) · P(Y = y ) , for all x , y
-"
, •
T),/'I'('lC/l); Fx (x.) PXy(x , y) =px(x)py(y) , for all x, y
,
: Pv
rY1,(JI'.k) C,)
x ,
Y, Z are inde pe ndent if:
•
PXyz(x , y,z ) =px (x) py ( y )pz ( z ), for al l x,y, z
, ,
6
Example: independence and conditional independence
y
4 1120 2120 2120 IV
• Independent? 0
3 2/20 4120 [120 2120
f" (,) :
"-/'10
2 1120 3120 1120
p. I
J) ( (1 I) -=. 0
n
"'); 1
1120
,
I 2 3 4
< >
• What if we co ndition on X - 2 and Y 3 7
Ye.5
•
7
Independence and expectations
• In general: E[g(X, Y)]7"= g(E[X],E[y] )
exQI(J{/.r
crL(e
5
+ + + + + +
• Exceptions: E[aX b] = aE[X] b E[X Y Z] = E[X] E[Y] E[Z]
If X, Yare independent: E[XY] = E[X]E[Y]
g(X) and h(Y) are also independent: E[g(X)h(Y)] = E[g(X)] . E[h(Y)]
t f
/d]
'b'(X
cr-?:./y) :
'2: )'
r
::; ' l 2 2
'1/7 P (?::'7)"? 7 F (7)
"'., '( (7<.)
x "" x
, ..,
'(
=E[X]E[Y.]
:~'lCfll(?<-):ZYf'Y(/)
'" £7
I
•
8
Independence and variances
2 +
• Always true : var(aX) = a va r (X) var(X a) = var(X)
+ +
• In genera l: var(X y) var(X) var(Y)
~
+ +
If X , Yare independ ent: var(X Y) = var (X) var(Y) (5)1.1 .... "
""" , E[xj-:.ff'!];o
va.1(X+'() :E[C'ItY)1.] ::. E[X!.+ j.X'(-I y:t] S-[K'1j::. r;[l'] (;.['1) = 0
,r:-[x'(J, .,..
E[iC'l) t £ ['(11 ::
var-(",)
o t- t-VClI'('()
• Examples:
= + = t 2. 110." (]f)
- If X Y: var(X Y) "0." X) :: L.j
= - + =
- If X Y: var(X Y) \lCI"" ( 0) ::. 0 va
y (""')
3
var ( - '1 ) " ... 0
- If X, Y independent: var(X - 3Y) = Va I' ()() t- va, (,)
9
Variance of the binomial
• X: binomial with parameters n, p
- number of successes in n independent trials
X i = 1 if i th trial is a success;
(indicator variable)
Xi = 0 otherwise
X=Xl+",+ X
n
I)
var(x) (X + ••
r
VO
7;
.Vetr (Xl) ::
"'Yl.
10
The hat problem
• n people throw their hats in a box and then pick one at random
I/M.! yeoyfe
All permutations equally likely
Equivalent to picking one hat at a time
2
X= I
' L!l
• X: number of people who get their own hat
M,..;; ", 8 [1]_._.-11.]),)
3
[x .... ] =
f:[i<,] .... ..... f
[Xl .
- Find
J.,~~.,=II
'3 i 1>.
1, if i selects own hat
r"
ell
otherwise. P.o..f'
(k ) :
Z
k 1,/1<:)
1<
J
E[X, "'1 (x, I): '
• E[Xd = =-
'"
11
The variance in the hat problem
"">.~
• X: number of people who get their own hat
')(,;01
- Find var(X)
X, ,,0 ::=!> X. " 0
. _ 1, if i selects own hat
,
X ­ X=Xl+ X 2+···+ X n .... (..,.,)
0 , otherwise.
.... ?!'-
'>l
i l l
~~
L L
2 - +
I
• var(X) = E[X2) - (E[X))2 ,. X2 = X [ X iX j
i i,j:i:;kj ·
E[X,'] -;E'[x,] '"
;: IF!'..!..
• E[Xt) = I/"rl. ~ ,-l',.-..
-l- ..., ,
II< ('" -, ) • •
......
""'\
f [X, X.] :: f (X, X I) ::: f ()(, ::: ') X.::
• For i '" j : E[XiX j ) = :: I)
Z
:: .r
f I
I) (X I J) -: ,:. • ..:. "
(X, " z " I X ~
12
MIT OpenCourseWare
https://ocw.mit.edu
Resource: Introduction to Probability
John Tsitsiklis and Patrick Jaillet
The following may not correspond to a particular course on MIT OpenCourseWare, but has been provided by the author as an individual learning resource.
For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms.

---
