# 4Bccae7A432C31573Aa66E1513E69C2F Mitres 6 012S18 L04As

---

LECTURE 4: Counting
n • •
•
Discrete uniform law • A'
/ .
•
n
- Assume consists of n equally likely elements
• " J..
• /
•
- Assume A consists of k elements
' ",- 7
Then : peA) = number of elements of A = k v
1
prob = ­
n
number of elements of n
n
• Basic counting principle
• Applications
permutations number of subsets
combinations bi nom ia I proba bi lities
partitions
1
·3
2 =-
Basic counting principle \'2 Lj Lj .2.
1"=3
4 shirts
3 ties
, - ,
fV\ _11
2 j ackets
'Vl
;:~
t
Number of possible attires?
'V1;=-2
• r stages
choices at stage i
• ni
1Yl,' 'Yl2 ••• 1)'))-.
Number of choices is:
2
Basic counting principle examples
• Number of license plates w ith 2 letters followed by 3 digits:
'26
·'LG· \0-10-10
'3
26 '25 • , 0 . .
• ... if repetition is prohibited: ~
• Permutations: Num ber of ways of ordering n elements:
..
,
1.
"1.-1
~-'2
.
• Number of subsets of {I , ... ,n}:
"
2·2 ,··1
.
-
-
"
3
Example
A
• F ind the probabil it y th at : /
six rolls of a (six-sided) die al l give differe nt numbers.
! I I
I
(A ssum e all o utco m es equ ally likely.)
.£
~
1 Q
-+ i e (2) 'S ) ,1" ) b, 2) -:::
c 0 0 Jet)"", 1-)
II
o
-
-
•
4
n ) ..
Combinations • Definition: num ber of k-elem ent subset s n !
(
k
/'''1. .'-.
- of a g iven n - elem ent set k !(n - k )!
L................2;::::i': '/
"1\:0)1/1.., ••
• Two ways of constructing an ordered sequence of k distinct items: 1c:.;O}I)~ ... )'"
•
Choose the k items one at a time
Choose k items, then order them
1
I
,
• •
Ih.(<>t - I)(on_Z) • -
-('Yl-Ktl) '11 "
• •
~
("",-Ic)~
')J
-
-
I<~
M
KI
•
iC
5
n) n !
=
(k k!(n - k)!
1
C)=
=
--1
M
+ .. ' •
o
-t
I
•
6
G)
Binomial coefficient ---+) Binomial probabilities
G)pk (l _
• n > 1 ind epend ent coin t osses; P(H) = p P( k heads) = p)n- k
'1\: 6
P PJ P?Y : pY (\ -
P)(I - p)
(1- •
• P(HTT HHH ) =
K(
p \ _p)
'h.-I<
• P(particul ar k - hea d sequ ence) ::
Cit
((I-prJ<'· ~- heor} se?ue""ccs)
P (k hea ds) =
"l
\<
H
7
A coin tossing problem
Assumpti o ns:
• Given that there were 3 heads in 10 tosses,
• ind epend ence
what is the probability that the first two tosses were heads?
• P (H) = p
event A : the fi rst 2 tosses were heads
P (k hea ds) = C)pk( 1 _ p)n- k
event B : 3 out of 10 tosses were heads
E(H I_I
» ___
• First solution: .1 I
I )
1
P(A n B) 2 0..""ll o""C" L""to>~> /)D
1
I
peA B) = = -' ~---:-:-7-'-----~~--
.p
(g,')
PCB)
)t
8
p1. •
(8
PI .(I-?
8
- - I - -
- 1 ­
:., -
•
10
~
8
A coin tossing problem
Assumpti o ns:
• Given that there were 3 heads in 10 tosses,
• ind epend ence
what is the probability that the first two tosses were heads?
• P (H) = p
event A : the fi rst 2 tosses were heads
P (k hea ds) = C)pk( 1 _ p)n- k
event B : 3 out of 10 tosses were heads
• Second solution: Conditional probability law (on B) is uniform
ee'\~tQ 10 5e9.
SL
•
•
• :#= i... (11 B)
8
(I
• -
0 -
d.
•
3-t/eo. se9
5 #' i'l1 13
10
3>
•
p~(\ _P)1­
9
"'l
Partitions
f
'\
> >
• n 1 distinct items; r 1 persons
c
-'
give n i items to person i
• •
•
here nt , ... , n r are given nonnegative integers
M, "'l "­
+ ... +
with nl n r = n '\. 'VIr
• Ordering n items: /)'(1
•
Deal n i to each person i . and then order t
I, I I I I I I I I I i , I J
I , I I
= I
C tn,. IYl.
' I •
•
"1.,
'Yl _ l­
I - I"­
n !
numb er of partitio ns = - - - - - ­ (multinomial coefficient)
n l! n2 ! ···nT !
•
10
Example: 52-card deck, dealt (fairly) to four players.
Find P(each player gets an ace)
\ e..'rd!y
i e
fQ~+ ~ DM ~U.CleOy
• Outcomes are:
2 ,
?
- number of outcomes: ~
"I .
,,,,),,1
'11,'
• Constructing an outcome witll ·one a ce tor each person:
distribute the aces
distribute the remaining 48 cards
\2.:1'Z.:12~12~
48!
4·3·2· ~~~~~
12! 12! 12! 12!
• Answer:
52!
13! 13! 13! 13!
11
Example: 52-card deck, dealt (fairly) to four players. A sm art sol uti o n
Find P(each player gets an ace)
Stack th e deck, aces o n top
A ·
A .
- - ~ - -
•
•
•
'3~ - ­
I,
• ~b
,
•
•
'"
• •
'il 50
Lj~ - -
I"I
=
.\05"
-- ~
-"--"--"j
12
MIT OpenCourseWare
https://ocw.mit.edu
Resource: Introduction to Probability
John Tsitsiklis and Patrick Jaillet
The following may not correspond to a particular course on MIT OpenCourseWare, but has been provided by the author as an individual learning resource.
For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms.

---
