# 4D1F5B7Cc32C8B57Bcd2D9177E244C2B Mitres 6 012S18 L23As

---

LECTURE 23: More on the Poisson process
• The sum of independent Poisson r .v.s
• Merging and splitting
• Random incidence
1
The sum of independent Poisson random variables
• Poisson process of rate A = 1 ( J[ "
)( )(
N time
M
(Ar)k e-
• Consecutive intervals of length J.t and v
P(k , r) = k !
(At...)
• Numbers of arrivals during these intervals: M and N fIOIHo ...
.fc!ll~~"'" Y'e s
(1"') • Independent?
• M:
JIO'>'O",
• N: (V-)
•
The sum of independent Poisson random variables,
with means/parameters J.t and v ,
+
is Poisson with mean /pa rameter J.t v
2
..
•
> 2
~2: 0(0')
0=
1:(),
t'\~)~ +
Merged process: Poisson(Al
A~ )
3
Where is an arrival of the merged process coming from?
I A,((;l. t-~).)
P(Red arrival at time t) = Red bulb flashes
(Poisson)
OC,,)
An flashes
(Poisson)
o
1 > 2
Green bulb flashes
(Poisson)
oc6')
------- ----------+•
~eJ ~1
•
time
r
1
...... •
I (
A. I #') I"l
iI • 1"~r.) )( )(
P(kth arrival is Red) =
time
~ ~
____________________
G~ee~ ~I ~'
• Independence for different arrivals
time
10
P(4 out of first 10 arrivals are Red) = ...,
4
The time the first (or the last) light bulb burns out
I
• Three lightbulbs
time
y ,
I ,~ X'X -u •
- independent lifetimes X, Y, Z; exponential >,) t;me
1/3,1
• Find expected time until first burnout '" I 2 " .. .
"'00 ,
s fI d
? \ -~?:: \ -" j \ - &- ti me
f I
"-,,,Co) e e e '" '" 7<t-c.
.... : "'I 1\ /1
(1
-H"
_.H- -3,H
_~t
000
1
(~i"ltIlJ'(Jz.~>,t) =.f()(~tJ'(?-bJlh/;-)::e e e ::e
["p(),!)
• x,
Y, Z: first arrivals in independent Poisson processes
.f
(3,1)
• Merged process: 0,'5;0 ...
-cJ<rO~)
• min{X, Y, Z}: 1st arrival in merged process ....-­
5
The time the first (or the last) light bulb burns out
• Three lig htbulbs
time
- ind epend ent lifetim es X, Y, Z; expo nenti al(.x)
• Find ex pect ed tim e until all burn o ut , ,
,
I time
•
I I I
. - t­
t
3A 2,1 ,.\
6
Splitting of a Poisson process
• Split arrivals into two streams, using independent coin flips of a coin with bias q
assume that coin flips are independent from the original Poisson process
....
..
-:::1
time
Resulting streams are Poisson,
F T . • 2
rates >-q , >-( 1 - q)
f
time
• Are the two resulting streams independent?
•
Surprisingly, yes !
7
"Random incidence" in the Poisson process
• Poisson process that has been running forever
,
:x •
time
• Believe that A = 4/hour, so that E[Tkl =
•
• Show up at some time and measure interarrival time
- do it many times, average results, see something around 30 mins! Why?
8
"Random incidence" in the Poisson process - analysis
tL
1if V
- - - - - - - - ....:...-:' :': '=:-:-:: .
~-;:-::;-:":";==".:= ..~::::~:::::
----t-;m...e.
• Arrive at time t*
• U : last arrival time • V : next arrival time
O*-UJ.
eV-f1-)
+ /,
• V - U=
,
,
0)
,
f,y E"p(,J)
(~)
~
I
/~
• E(V - U] = - ­
-
­
rI ~
,
tI
.A,""
• V - U: interarrival time you see, versus kth interarrival time
9
Random incidence "paradox" not special to the Poisson process
IS
10
10
;c ,.
x •
r x
)F
time
• Example: interrarival times, i.i.d., equally likely to be 5 or 10 minutes
I
1 . ,
expected value of kth interarrival time: + - . 10
~ ~
• you show up at a "random time"
I
P(arrive during a 5-minute interarrival interval) = ­
3
__fc..
. 1 _
= -.:7"'""
expected length of interarrival interval during which you arnve -10
3
10
-:::3,'$
• Calculation generalizes to "renewal processes:"
i.i.d. interarrival times, from some general distribution
• "Samplin g m etho d" m atters
10
Different sampling methods can give different results
0 0
0
• Average family size?
(.~~o:)~·J
look at a "random" family (uniformly chosen)
6
G
r_.
look at a "random" person's (uniformly chosen) family
"
• Average bus occupancy?
I I ., I
I .
0
0 ..
look at a "random" bus (uniformly chosen)
look at a "random" passenger's bus
• Average class size?
11
MIT OpenCourseWare
https://ocw.mit.edu
Resource: Introduction to Probability
John Tsitsiklis and Patrick Jaillet
The following may not correspond to a p articular course on MIT OpenCourseWare, but has been provided by the author as an individual learning resource.
For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms.

---
