# B252F66A64Dfdfeba5387696F78C1039 Mitres 6 012S18 L03As

---

LECTURE 3: Independence
• Independence of two events
• Conditional independence
• Independence of a collection of events
• Pairwise independence
• Reliability
• The king 's sibling puzzle
1
E p::
(fl. I 1-1, )
~ f().it } T, )
A model based on conditional probabilities
f( Hz) : E(H,) f (l~.. ) J.I ,)
• 3 tosses of a biased coin : P (H ) = p, p eT) = 1 - p
1
Hz.
+- NT,) f.( T,)
1(\1,\ l
f./,) (H)-I H, C1
~~,)
-=p
.:mJ • M ultiplication rule: P (T /-IT) = (1- p) p(l- p)
HfIT
HTH
• T ota l probabi lity:
, - p
3
P ( l head) = p(1 _1')7.
p niH
, . p • Bayes rul e: E(H niCleoJ,)
p
I - p
11
= ..: ..-:.._~'-~~--
P(first t oss is H head)
p
!?.
•
(l. (lead.)
,
rrr
I . p
2
Independence of two events / A '\
n
13
•
I
• Intuitive "definition": P CB A) = P CB)
- occurrence of A provides no new inform ati on about B
1
~) ::.f (t/) .f( Bill) =- f f (s) "- /
Ctj() (A)
> >
p eA) 0 P CB) 0
In depend ent?
Definition of independence: p eA n B) = p eA) . PCB)
P(A0g)=0
f. (.'\
)!~. ( (3) ? 0
- Symm etric w ith respect t o A and B
I
im pli es p eA B) = p eA)
- applies even if p eA) = 0
3
Independence of event complements
Definition of independence: P CA n B) = P CA) . P CB)
-
• If A and -B are independ ent. then A and B e are independent.
- Intuitive argument - Formal proof
A (A t)
(I-Ing) u ()~
A :0
1
.E f
(4'1~) + (1If)~(-)
(ll)::
:: tr4H f 12/)
(~) (.4~
t
.£
,,£
(AI)P;~) (11) -.H4)!(I»:: 1(4) (I - p. (1?»)
.E C
= f (a
(A)
)
4
Conditional independence
• Conditional independence, given C,
I
is defined as ind ependence under the probability law PC· C)
n Assume A and B are ind ependent
/ A
'­ ./
A
"­
B
C
C
• If we are told that C occurred,
fIIo
are A and B independent?
5
Conditioning may affect independence
• Two unfair coins, A and B:
I I
P(H coin A) = 0.9, P(H coin B) = 0.1
• choose either coin with equal probability
• Are coin tosses independent?
tv ./
0.9
O.
0.1
Coin A
Compare: = " ( )
0.9 irA) £. (!-I" )A) ... .En~h 8»
P(toss 11 = H) flu
O. 1
0."
0.1 o.
= d). 9 r 0.5' • I 5"
'Z <!).
I
O. 1 P(toss 11 = H first 10 tosses are heads)
0.5
0.9
Coin B
O. 1
0.9
6
Independence of a collection of events
• Intuitive "definition": Inform ati on on so me of the events
does not change probabiliti es relat ed t o the rem aining events
t); ))
n
A, )A1 '''. J f. (A,!> A'1' ) :. f. (.q ') A: \ A (,q2
i '" e '(J ::::;> I) U l) •
I
n
.£
1 (A:;) ::. 1 (4 ') 1A At) .: J (4; 1A A; ) '" (A:; M,' 1)4
,1\
)
I
2
Definition: Events Al l A 2,"" A n are ca lled independent if:
for any distin ct indi ces i , j , ... )m
n = 3:
p eA , n A2) = p eA,) . P (A2)
p eA , n A3) = p eA,) . P (A3) pairwise ind ependence
P (A n A ) = P (A ) . P (A3)
2 3 2
7
vs.
Independence pairwise independence \-11
HT
• Two independent fair cOin tosses HH;
'4 'N
- H 1: First toss is H
'N
- H 2: Second toss is H
TT
H~
P( H , ) = P( H 2) = 1( 2
1
• C : the two tosses had the same result -: H H," T~
i . f =*
.e
l+
,,1 '/'1 C: i .. ,hf..
.Y (Ii,n c) (l-II()H~)" (H/H (c.) " I)
H., c ,..
<iff..
.r ~
(11, () l-I'/. ~ <.) "f (H I-I) :. '1"1 '- d'
'- Itt·
1(Il,)i(U,JiC<.)::>'18 /
•
.1' C(. \ H,) :: f
= f.().)2.)
'h :: f Cc.)
()./2 \ I-} .=
I )
.i ( c. \ ).J, cl)..)'/,) :::: i =fr 'f C c..') = 'h
H l. H 2, a nd C are pairw ise ind ependent, but not ind ependent
8
U; : (, t h u"i t u p
Reliability
,Uy, .• . ~v>JQ.fcvoJe",t
,U",
Pi : pro bability th at unit i is " up" (./,
,... . i 1:)' I:
independent un its r- •• u '" ~ 01.0 w .....
t f
~
F:
",o.(I.)?Il.1AJe'IA.
probab ili t y th at syst em is " up"
7
f =1.
el)..,
n n
(Sylte..... U,»
1A-f')
(,(t
P. f.
:-1((./,) t(U.)f p,
(U~) ~
I
P l f
1 (~r?.j."... " "'1') : u u
(U, U. U'lo)
.e
(r:-, ()
-:: I - F2 11 F3 ")
I P2 I
H
f ((:,) f
" I -
~2.) (I=~)
"1>3
P,) (
(I - (1 - F1 )
" I _
t - )? )
9
The king's sibling
•
• The king comes from a family of two children . /
What is the probability that his Siblin'g is female?
~O7> f~ecede"'ce ,/~
()",ve
!(l)c)'):o£.(<t{re);;
t
rell>de ...
~ ... dl/.
SG­
~s
_ -,/,q.c.
,;/;q!._
•
• /;; ee
10
MIT OpenCourseWare
https://ocw.mit.edu
Resource: Introduction to Probability
John Tsitsiklis and Patrick Jaillet
The following may not correspond to a particular course on MIT OpenCourseWare, but has been provided by the author as an individual learning resource.
For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms.

---
