# D9B5409A84567A002Ebecf3B188Dd2C7 Mitres 6 012S18 L04

---

ECTURE 4~ Counting
o·screte uniform law
n
- Assume consists of n equally likely elemen ·ts
- Assume consists of k elements
k
1
Ten:
prob= -
n
n
• Applicat·ons
permutat·ons number of subsets
combina ·ans binom·a probabi it·es
partit·ons
1
Basic counting principle
4 shirts
3 ties
2 jackets
Number of possible attires?
• r stages
choices at stage i
• ni
Number of choices is:
2
Basic counting p.rinciple examples
• Number of license plates with 2 letters followed by 3 digits :
• ... if repetition is prohibited:
• Permutations: Number of ways of ordering n elements:
• Number of subsets of {1, ... , n}:
3
Example
• Find the probability that:
six rolls of a (six-sided) die all give different numbers.
(Assume all outcomes equally likely.)
4
Combinations • Definition. (~). be of k-e e e t u · e s n!
- ----
k!(n-k)'
o give n-el e t e
• wo ways of constructing an ordered se uence of k distinct ·terns.
Choose the k items one at a time
Choose k items, then order them
5
n) n!
(
=
k k!(n - k)!
(~)=
6
-> Binomia probabi -t-es
( ) -p
• P(HTTHHH) -
=
• P(pa icular sequence)
• P(particular k-head sequence)
P(k eads) -
7
A coin tossing problem
Assumptions:
• Given that there were 3 heads in 10 tosses
' • independence
what is the probability that the first two tosses were heads?
=
• P(H)
p
event A : the first 2 tosses were heads
=
P(k heads) (:)pk(l - p)n-k
- event B : 3 out of 10 tosses were heads
• First solution:
I n
P(A B) = P(A B) =
P(B)
8
A coin tossing problem
Assumptions:
• Given that there were 3 heads in 10 tosses,
• independence
what is the probability that the first two tosses were heads?
=
• P(H)
p
event A : the first 2 tosses were heads
=
P(k heads) (:)pk(l - p)n-k
- event B : 3 out of 10 tosses were heads
• Second solution: Conditional probability law (on B) is uniform
9
Partitio s
>
1 distinct ·terns, 1 persons
• n r
~
give items to person i
ni
here n 1 , ... , nr are given no negative integers
+ · · · + =
- w·th n1 nr n
• Ordering n items:
- Deal to each person i, and then order
ni
n
n er of art ·o (mult nomia coefficie t)
10
52-card deck, dealt (fa·rly) to fo r playe s.
Example.
~nd P(each payer gets an ace)
• Outcomes are:
- number of outcomes.
• Co structing an outcome with one ace for each person:
distr·bute the aces
distr~bute the remaining 48 ca ds
48!
4•3 ,•2· -----
12! 12! 2! 12!
• Answer:
52.
13! 13! 13! 3!
11
Example. 52-card deck, dealt (fa·r y) to fo r playe s. A smart so ution
~nd P(each payer gets an ace)
Stack the deck, aces on top Deal, one at a time, to available ..s ots"
A•
A •
A
•
A
111II11111111 I
•
•
•
11 11 I I 11111 I 11
11 11 I I 11111 I 11
11 11 I I 1111 I I 11
12
MIT OpenCourseWare
https://ocw.mit.edu
Resource: Introduction to Probability
John Tsitsiklis and Patrick Jaillet
The following may not correspond to a particular course on MIT OpenCourseWare, but has been provided by the author as an individual learning resource.
For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms.
13

---
